---
title: "A guide to surviving 10 hour work days"
date: "2025-10-04"
author: "Khiem"
tags: "Reminder"
excerpt: "Go with the flow."
---
### How did I end up with 10 hour shifts

From 8 in the morning to 9:55 at night. That's how long the longest work day lasted for me. They were the result of me working overtime, taking other people's shift at multiple teaching jobs to hoard cash to buy a new phone or a monitor. One contract signed after another and they stack up to two 10-hours shifts a week, and at least 5 for the other four days - Wednesday off :D.

Standing and speaking, moving between places are my responsibilities. How do I best prepare myself for that.

### A little notice and adjustment goes a long way

1. In the beginning there was clueless me stumbling into classrooms where adults would stare at me and hear me talk for long hours and leaves me tired by the end of the day - weeks to weeks things are what they are.
2. Until I began to notice the changes in the things he did from last night and what I ate throughout the day allowed myself a bit of sustainance by the end of the day. The noticing began, if a certain food I ate gave me more energy, I would keep on eating it, if a certain ritual like a small cup of tea at the beginning of each shift gave me more energy, it would be carried on to the next day.
3. With each iteration, I believe I have compiled enough mini rituals and habits for sustaining long and focused work hours not only in teaching jobs but also any that demmands energy and focus.

### It begins with food choices

1. Ramen and other preprocessed food from the packaging eaten from last night would drain you of energy. A very minor but certain detail is that when you eat instant ramen late at night, as suppose to regular rice, you would hate waking up a little bit more and the day drags on a little longer, your breath a little less strong. So avoid eating them late into the night. Rice is fine somehow. So keep leftover rice in your fridge along with a few eggs to have.
2. Avoid sugar. Teachers, my mom included, always have some candy with them to chew on. I thought it would be pleasant too to have some candies, but turned out I was wrong - snacks too, oreos especially. Heard it from some podcast that it something related to blood sugar level crashing. Some are more sensitive than others.
2. Egg and rice are not just replacement for prepackaged junk, they are sort of super food in and of themselves. I basically stuck to egg and rice for a long while because they were cheap. However, moving off of that diet would be a little more tasteful but leaves me just a slight bit less focused and energetic for the day.

### Pick your choice of stimulant!

1. Tea. Nice, cool, can be drank in great amount, can be a substitute for water. Sustainable, no crashes, works for the whole day. Effect is mild if you have it in little like coffee. Solid choice. Have to make it yourself though.
2. Coffee. Nice, cool. Effect is felt immediately after drinking or works very quickly. I usually have coffee between breaks, a little expensive but it looks cool.
3. Smoking - Nicotine. Nice, I heard. But I haven't used it.

### Egg and rice and a bottle of tea

A bit tasteless but it means that I have energy to work on my other tasks at night.